Welcome back.
So we're now finally getting Python involved in the equation.
We're going to learn how to write a lot of those sequel statements that we already did selecting things
creating tables inserting things into tables but do it through python so that we could do it dynamically
we could write code too.
I don't know scrape Well I do know because we're kind of do that scrape stuff from a web site and save
it to a database or create random entries like fill your database with a bunch of placeholder data 10000
times things that would just be a huge pain to do on your own.
But of course this same idea applies to things like making a web site where you need to interact with
the database.
You need to create.
You might create the tables manually yourself but then you insert the data through python.
Usually someone submits a form that form triggers Python code in the backend that code through python
is going to insert into a database and that sort of process goes on and on and on.
So let's start with the very basics.
One of the reasons I chose to use equal light was that Python comes with a builtin library to communicate
with it sort of a wrapper it's a connector between one technology sequel and another which is python.
And every database has some version of this out there or there are many actually that work with multiple
different types of databases.
There's lots of third party libraries but this one is just called sequel 3 and it comes with Python.
You don't have to install anything at all.
So the basics.
Well we import sequel 3 and then we create a connection.
So this is our link to a database.
So whatever our database file is if we have a you know startup app D-B or cat Scott D-B we connect to
it and then we do various commands.
We'll come back to this through something called a cursor.
So in this video I just want us to be able to create a new database through python create a new table
in that database and then execute that code commit it and then close.
OK.
So those are the basics that what I want to try to do.
And we're going to come over to a new file first.
Actually I've made a new directory in the past one.
There was just a lot of database files going.
I guess it's only two but it looks kind of confusing.
So I made this new friend directory we're going to be working with friends this time around and I have
a new file called friends up P Y and I'm going to start by importing sequel light 3.
And then the next important line is to create my connection which is sequela 3 dot connect.
And then if we had an existing database we could connect to that one.
But since we don't we can actually create our new database file through python.
So we're going to say I don't know let's call it people.
Let's go with my friends.
D.B whatever just something.
And then let's save it to a variable they like to call it.
Con I always think that says short for Connecticut but connection is fine.
You could call it C or just connection.
It's not that long.
And then what we do along the way is interact with that database through this connection.
So at the very end we want to make sure that we close our connection just like when we are opening a
file and writing to it we want to close the file.
So we close that connection and then somewhere in here we'll do things like I don't know insert into
or select.
Of course we can't just write those commands as they are.
We have to go through the sequel light library.
So if we just save this file and execute it right now how it is all that it does is connect to a database
that doesn't yet exist and then close.
Let's see what happens.
OK I just executed it Python 3 friends that why.
And what do you know.
We have a new database my friend D-B.
So that was our first thing that we did technically you know we could've just made this file on our
own.
It's totally empty.
But it is a database file.
And next time if I run this code it's going to connect to that database.
It's not going to keep remaking it.
So that's nice.
If we double check right there's only one of them you'll have to trust that it's the same one and every
time that we add or remove from this database or create new tables it will always find this one.
It's not going to make a new one unless it can't find my friend DB.
So now let's talk about creating a table.
So the sequel to create a table looks like this.
Right.
Create table.
Let's say we're making our table called people friends friends is fine.
And inside of that what do we want for friends.
Let's have first name is going to be text last name is also text.
And age is instead of age it's kind of boring let's do closeness like rate.
How close to a friend they are.
Closeness which would be an integer.
So from 1 to 10 how good of a friend is someone.
So this is the sort of sequel that we want to run.
Create table friends.
Make sure I don't have any errors when you semi-colon but to do it we have to do it through the sort
of Python interface.
And the first thing we have to talk about is a concept called a cursor.
It's kind of complicated to explain and it doesn't really matter how it works because we just have to
do it.
Basically a cursor is like a temporary workspace work area for Sequel commands.
So it allocates just a little bit of memory for us to work and then it will return some data.
Usually we basically create a cursor and then execute different lines of sequel with it.
So the pattern is make the cursor so create cursor objects and then will say execute some sequel with
that cursor and then we'll also commit changes.
OK so to create the cursor object to super simple we have our connection and all we have to do is say
Conne dot cursor and then save that to a variable in the docs.
They do see a lot.
We could also just call it cursor but C equals conduct cursor.
Now all of the commands that we execute like this one here eventually will be c dot executes something.
So if I just copy this in here and do a secret execute and then commit those changes which is con dot
commit like that and then close the connection.
So we open a connection to this database which already exists.
Now it's empty.
We create a new cursor object we execute a line a sequel we commit to the connection and close.
Let's see if it works.
Fingers crossed I don't have any typos here.
Text text.
Integer looks OK.
Here we go.
All right they don't work.
Let's just check by going to school.
Three my friends D-B and do dot tables.
Ha.
We have a friends table now and we can also do a schema schema on friends and see.
OK.
It is the exact statement right.
First name Tech's last name text closeness integer.
All right.
So that worked.
Now let's move on to not creating that table again but doing something else like inserting into that
table.